I'm Reno from Jim Wright offroad
I'm the driver of the ultra for pro car
4:45 and we're here at SEMA 2013 all
right so this has a six hundred ninety
five horsepower custom LS engine that
will run in the torco sr5 2050 and we've
also got rock jocks at nieces or custom
housings we'll run in the torque know
250 weight in there so this is all very
heavy-duty high performance for this
really intense ultra four style racing
as it's the toughest single day race
that there is
all right so on this car we've got quad
bypass King shocks these are special
shocks that really slow down the real
suspension and the actually has built-in
bump stops so for auto racing this is
super important to control how much
you're hammering through the ruts and
boogie news falcon is our tire sponsor
and they're introducing a brand new tire
here at SEMA there's a brand new mud
terrain they prepare a special sticky
tire for us that we can run at a higher
pressure but it's got a super sticky
compound that's key for the type of
racing we're doing before you have to go
fast and slow so this car is a custom
chassis and as part of the custom
chassis that we do is the engine is
offset to the passenger side and it's
also angled so that it's actually
pointing toward the driver's seat so to
do this what we've done is offset it
from the differential because you've got
a big suspension coming up and down and
it also offsets the weight so the car
has a perfect 50/50 balance for the rear
and left to right
right the next thing is we're on the
cockpit so this is a two passenger car
it's very tight this is this is not
built for comfort when you get in here
you feel like a fighter pilot you're
strapped in it's tight it's all business
in here we've got a complete digital
dash so that the driver and co-driver
can see exactly what's happening and
it's got special alarms built in it even
little things like yumminess I've got a
watch here on the rear view mirror
that's so when I enter certain sections
of the course I can make note of the
time and see how my split times are
doing to make sure we're going as fast
we can through the course next the car
has everything on this car has a
redundant system two batteries two
radiators two trans coolers two fans on
every cooler weave there's there's
double and everything so if something
fails we can just switch over to the
second fuel pump or the second radiator
a fan so very important we've run out a
large Griffin radiator here in the back
of the car
this helps distribute the weight and it
also keeps the radiator out of harm's
way because when your desert racing to
pass somebody sometimes you've got to go
through nasty bushes or you're right on
them where you get roosted and you don't
want to damage the radio
good-sized exhaust we've got to be able
to get all the that exhaust out from a
700 horsepower engine all the way to the
back of the car that's part of the
regulations so on the rear differential
you can see that it's heavily trust this
is a special curry Rock Chalk 70 just
got a 10 and 5/8 inch ring gear these
are really heavy-duty big tubes all
chromoly we're running a 40 spline axle
inside of here this is really heavy-duty
built but it's very susceptible we can
break these with this kind of horsepower
really easy so also key to having Torgo
fluids in here to keep that ring and
pinion alive we were only getting like
300 miles out of them
now we're getting over a thousand after
switching the turret oh yeah
okay so we've got a couple of things on
this side of the car this is a spare
driveshaft with the proper u-bolts
wrenches everything you need this drive
shaft fits front or rear on this car so
again having spare parts redundancy vo
also notice we've got a quick fuel fuel
right here this is so the guys can dump
in 11 gallons in three seconds is about
what it takes all right so this class
car this is an unlimited
four-wheel-drive class the ami rule in
this class is that it has to have a
high-low transfer case otherwise it's
completely unlimited engine size tire
size wheelbase weight of the car
everything is unlimited if you think he
can win you bring it on race day so if
you're interested in this class you can
go to ultra for racing comm for the main
race site we've got videos on YouTube so
you go to the generate YouTube channel
or you go to the generate com website
and we've got video links there too and
you can see some of the videos and then
there's links over to YouTube so lots of
good stuff
very exciting former racing it's it's
limited there's about 500 cars embracing
this class but only 100 can qualify on
race day so it's a very competitive
class and a lot of guys are really
battling it's it's one of those kind of
races where literally if somebody breaks
down in front of you you can run them
over as per the religion so it's uh it's
a very intense race day